Module title Abbreviation

Information Processing within Organizations 12-IV-161-m01

Module coordinator Module offered by

holder of the Chair of Business Management and Business 

Faculty of Business Management and Economics

ECTS Method of grading Only after succ. compl. of module(s)

5 numerical grade --

Duration Module level Other prerequisites

1 semester graduate --

Contents

Content:
This course provides students with an in-depth overview of the structure and the application areas of business 
management information systems in enterprises and public institutions.
 
Outline of syllabus:
1. What is software: concepts, categories, application
2. Software life cycle: duration, phases, steps
3. As-is analysis: tasks, problems
4. To-be concept: system design, data design, dialog design, function design
5. Object orientation: paradigm shift
6. Change management: meaning, methodologies, project management
7. Office automation: tasks, areas of application

Intended learning outcomes

After completing the course "Integrated Information Processing", students will be able to
(i) understand the importance of integration in enterprises, especially in information systems;
(ii) assess the progress of development of a software project, estimate cycle costs, know and consider require-
ments, which brings a software implementation with;
(iii) select the correct procedures or practices in an as-is analysis and target conception and practically apply 
(with participation in the exercise);
(iv) understand the importance of change management and project management and know the appropriate me-
thods for specific applications.

Courses (type, number of weekly contact hours, language — if other than German)

V (2) + Ü (2)

Method of assessment (type, scope, language — if other than German, examination offered — if not every semester, information on whether 

module is creditable for bonus)

written examination (approx. 60 minutes)
Language of assessment: German and/or English
creditable for bonus

Allocation of places

--

Additional information

--

Workload

150 h

Teaching cycle

--

Referred to in LPO I  (examination regulations for teaching-degree programmes)

--






Module appears in

Master's degree (1 major) Economathematics (2016)
Master's degree (1 major) Business Management (2015)
Master's degree (1 major) China Business and Economics (2016)
Master's degree (1 major) International Economic Policy (2015)
Master's degree (1 major) China Language and Economy (2016)
Master's degree (1 major) Management (2018)
Master's degree (1 major) International Economic Policy (2018)
Master's degree (1 major) China Business and Economics (2019)
Master's degree (1 major) China Language and Economy (2019)
Master's degree (1 major) China Business and Economics (2021)
Master's degree (1 major) China Language and Economy (2021)
Master's degree (1 major) Economathematics (2021)
Master's degree (1 major) International Economic Policy (2022)
Master's degree (1 major) Management (2022)
Master's degree (1 major) Economathematics (2022)
exchange program Business Management and Economics (2022)







